Hey welcome back.
This is the last video on set.
I know it's been such a brutal long section of Tuhoe videos.
It's probably the shortest topic we'll cover but there are some built and set methods we need to discuss
unlike tuples which only had what two methods we talked about.
There are a couple more to talk about with sets but it's still pretty straightforward.
So let's get going.
And the first one we'll look at is called add.
So if we have a set we need a way to add data in as we go.
And plus we have it all at the beginning when we initialize the set.
But a lot of times you want to be able to add items.
So all we do is call s whatever our set is it's a set method so the name of a set dot ad and then we
pass in a piece of data a number a string or so on.
And if the number or string of the piece of data is already in there like we try an ad for the first
time it works.
And if we try and add it again it doesn't throw an error or anything it just doesn't add it.
So if I have this series set from last video and I tried to add Vancouver and we look at cities that
works just fine you can see Vancouver right there.
And if I tried to add Kioto again or something like that no error.
But it doesn't show up twice.
See there it is only one time.
OK so that's add next is remove so remove will remove a value from a set.
It looks like this.
Here's our set.
It has 1 2 3 4 5 6.
If I want to remove 3.
Well if it's in there it will be removed.
So let's try that again.
Here we have cities and let's do cities remove let's remove Oslo and if we look at cities now I can
spell you can see it's gone.
Now if I tried to remove something that isn't in this why do I keep spelling cities like that.
Oh my gosh.
I try and remove something that isn't in there like Moscow I get an error.
So it will throw an error if the item is not in the set that you're trying to remove.
OK.
So that add and remove the two ways.
Really the only ways of adding and removing items if we do need to avoid those key errors we can use
another method called discard so I'll briefly show that if I did the same thing as cities that discard
Moscow
and we look at cities we don't get an error.
Moscow was never there.
So nothing happened.
But if I use discard again and remove something like Santiago and we look at cities it's also been removed.
So if you don't want to worry about those errors then you can use discard instead.
Next up is copy copy is very straightforward.
It just makes a copy of the set.
Remember that just like when we used copy with lists or with dictionaries it will make a duplicate of
the data and things look the same but they are not identical.
If you use is so in this case we have as is our first set and we make another s as a copy.
If we look at another s it looks the same.
Double equals would be true but if we compared it using is it's false because they are not the exact
same thing.
In memory they are copies.
OK next is clear.
Also a very straightforward one which removes the entire contents of the set and starts over it deletes
everything.
So I won't do it.
I don't want to sacrifice our cities.
But if I did if I did City start clear it would just show up empty.
Next I'm going to show something that's a little different so set.
Math is a subset of math in the real world not just in Python where we work with sets.
You may have seen set notation before and often we do things like find the intersection of sets or the
union or the symmetric difference.
If you're not familiar with what these are.
Don't worry I'm going to show just a couple of examples very very quickly.
So let's go to sublime here.
I have a file focus on these two lines.
Suppose that I'm a teacher in a high school or college or something and I have two courses a math course
in a biology course and they have student names as a set for each one.
This does assume by the way that you know the students have unique first names.
There could be two Mathew's or two Jain's or something.
We're not going to worry about that for now.
So these are all my students.
Let's say that I'm sending out report cards or some something that I need to do for each student at
one time and I want to basically generate a set of all of my students without any duplicates.
What I want there is called the Union.
I want to take all of the names that are on this list plus all the names on this list but I don't want
to have duplicates like I don't want.
James twice or Matthew twice for example to do that.
It's very simple.
Let me just bring this over pasted in so we have two sets and I use the civil pipe which is on my keyboard
above the return key.
Have to hit shift to get it and I'll do pipe biology students which this is a way of saying Union set
union.
And if I look at the result I get how many items are in there 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and there is no duplicate.
So this is a list of a set of all of my students once but I can also do set intersections which in this
case would tell me the set of students who are in both of my courses.
So to do that it's the same syntax except instead of the or we use N and like an ampersand above the
seven key and it tells me OK James and Matthew are your two students that you have and both courses.
So in the rest of this python course we probably won't be doing much set math but it's just worth knowing
that these are things that you can do with sets because sets are these unique collections of data and
if you have multiple sets you often want to find things like where do they intersect.
Where are they different.
What's the total unique entries between three different sets.
That sort of thing you can do that using set math.
That's all that I'll say about that for now and I'll add it in here.
I'll type a little note up just a moment.
There we go.
So I encourage you to play around with this.
Try doing it with three or four different sets and it'll end this video here.
All that we have left to talk about with the sets is set comprehension.
That's next.
And then we're done and then we move on to my favorite topic functions.